README.md, before:

# Cato API Explorer
 
## Description

This web based application enables developers to quickly unit test individual API calls for the Cato GraphQL API.

The Cato API Explorer is a docker-based web application API client, developed as an open-source project available for immediate use and comes with no official support. This application is designed initially to be built and run as a container locally to be used "as is", the container may be migrate to the hosted Cato registry. Additionally, the containerized version may be decommissioned and migrated to a fully hosted version at any point in the future.

## Prerequisites

- Install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) on the system.
- Review the [Alpine Linux Container README](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine).
- Choose a location on the system in which to store your settings and logs.

## Container Setup

To deploy a container based on this image, follow the steps below.  The instructions assume you have chosen your home directory of `~/cato-api-explorer` as a base folder for storing settings and data.  If you choose a different path, please update the path in the commands below accordingly.

1. On the Docker host, create the **docker-compose.yml** file inside the `~/cato-api-explorer` folder. A sample **docker-compose.yml** file is included in this repository.
1. Change into the `~/cato-api-explorer` folder.
   - `host# cd ~/cato-api-explorer`
1. Pull the latest image from the registry:
   - `host# docker compose pull`
1. Use **docker-compose** to bring up the container:
   - `host# docker compose up -d`

You can modify the ports mapped by the sample **docker-compose.yml** file if you'd prefer to run HTTP and HTTPS traffic on ports other than 8080 and 8443, respectively, on your system.

## Accessing the UI

Once the container has been started, you can simply access the UI by navigating to <http://localhost:8080>.  If you've chosen an alternate port other than 8080, be sure to connect to it instead.

## Initial Configuration

Under the Settings tab, add your API keys to authenticate.

## Troubleshooting

If you need to access the container in order to troubleshoot one or more errors, you should use the `docker exec -t -i _containerId_ /bin/ash` command to connect to the container replacing **_ _containerId_ _** with the actual ID of the container shown in the first column when you run `docker ps -a`.  

Once connected, error information can be found in the **/var/log/apache2/error_log** file.

## Updating and Upgrading the Container

In the future, you can update the container by simply re-running **docker-compose build** followed by **docker-compose up --force-recreate** from the **/opt/docker/cato-api-explorer** folder.  These commands will automatically pull the latest version of the image(s) from the registry and replace it without affecting your data or configurations.

## Additional Help or Questions

If you have questions, find bugs or need additional help, please send an email to:
[brian.anderson@catonetworks.com](mailto:brian.anderson@catonetworks.com).

## Links

- [Alpine Linux Container](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine)
- [Docker Compose](https://github.com/docker/compose/)

Commit message:

updated readme to highlight upgrade process

README.md, after:

# Cato API Explorer
 
## Description

This web based application enables developers to quickly unit test individual API calls for the Cato GraphQL API.

The Cato API Explorer is a docker-based web application API client, developed as an open-source project available for immediate use and comes with no official support. This application is designed initially to be built and run as a container locally to be used "as is", the container may be migrate to the hosted Cato registry. Additionally, the containerized version may be decommissioned and migrated to a fully hosted version at any point in the future.

## Prerequisites

- Install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) on the system.
- Review the [Alpine Linux Container README](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine).
- Choose a location on the system in which to store your settings and logs.

## Container Setup

To deploy a container based on this image, follow the steps below.  The instructions assume you have chosen your home directory of `~/cato-api-explorer` as a base folder for storing settings and data.  If you choose a different path, please update the path in the commands below accordingly.

1. On the Docker host, create the **docker-compose.yml** file inside the `~/cato-api-explorer` folder. A sample **docker-compose.yml** file is included in this repository.
1. Change into the `~/cato-api-explorer` folder.
   - `host# cd ~/cato-api-explorer`
1. Pull the latest image from the registry:
   - `host# docker compose pull`
1. Use **docker-compose** to bring up the container:
   - `host# docker compose up -d`

## Upgrade Process

1. On the Docker host, create the **docker-compose.yml** file inside the `~/cato-api-explorer` folder. 
1. Stop the container
   - `host# docker compose down`
1. Pull the latest image from the registry:
   - `host# docker compose pull`
1. Use **docker-compose** to bring up the container:
   - `host# docker compose up -d`


You can modify the ports mapped by the sample **docker-compose.yml** file if you'd prefer to run HTTP and HTTPS traffic on ports other than 8080 and 8443, respectively, on your system.

## Accessing the UI

Once the container has been started, you can simply access the UI by navigating to <http://localhost:8080>.  If you've chosen an alternate port other than 8080, be sure to connect to it instead.

## Initial Configuration

Under the Settings tab, add your API keys to authenticate.

## Troubleshooting

If you need to access the container in order to troubleshoot one or more errors, you should use the `docker exec -t -i _containerId_ /bin/ash` command to connect to the container replacing **_ _containerId_ _** with the actual ID of the container shown in the first column when you run `docker ps -a`.  

Once connected, error information can be found in the **/var/log/apache2/error_log** file.

## Updating and Upgrading the Container

In the future, you can update the container by simply re-running **docker-compose build** followed by **docker-compose up --force-recreate** from the **/opt/docker/cato-api-explorer** folder.  These commands will automatically pull the latest version of the image(s) from the registry and replace it without affecting your data or configurations.

## Links

- [Alpine Linux Container](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine)
- [Docker Compose](https://github.com/docker/compose/)
